you're on let me
try that question from another direction the last question in terms of your
opinion which book or books are you most satisfied with and secondly which of
your alien cultures are you perhaps most satisfied with that is a very difficult
question like asking a parent to choose amongst twins and triplets, you know.
There are several books which are dear to my own heart for various reasons. The
Morgaine books, I think, because they were conceived among the earliest, and
they contain many things which are, I guess, most young writers grow up with a
sort of a fantasy world of their own, and that one does contain some elements of
that. The Faded Sun books because I felt very deeply a number of the things that
I was saying down below station in many ways because it cost me so much work
in terms of assembling an entire universe that I am going to use in subsequent
books. I had the feeling that I had just created the world after putting that
together and
certain aliens from particular cultures are I even got fond of Old Sooth in The
Faded Sun and only a mother could love that one so I do develop a bit of an
affection for the number of my alien creations, even some of the unlovable ones,
I guess just because I know no one else is going to be able to stand them, Sooth
of course is the villain, and I cast him that way and that's not his fault
except for being what he is, but it's very difficult to pick choose because I
guess I always try to do the things like the Hunter of Worlds. I like, I think,
partly because it's the kind of book that I wanted to write and I got away with
it. Don Wollheim was very, very understanding in that department because I think
many editors would would have come and said well yes but no one will understand
those words you've got to change them to English and that would have defeated
the entire purpose of the book and that one is sort of a very very strange books
that I can re-read and find something I didn't know was there which is kind of
an odd feeling
ok I realize that would be a tough question to answer I just thought I'd try it
anyhow Now, you did mention a little while ago that you're working on a number
of things. Could you just briefly comment on some of the things you're working
on that might be near completion? You know, they're not giving away plots or
anything. Well, my current project is an extension of a short story called The
Dreamstone and a novelette called Eldwood. and they're set in sort of an
alternate area of England just north of Wales and opposite Ireland. They're a
fantasy story. I wanted to do something with Celtic mythology even before I had
read Tolkien. Tolkien came out with, of course, The Lord of the Rings, which I
discovered when I was in university. before, incidentally, it became as popular
as it did. And I thought, oh, dear, someone has done it so well. This is a
problem. And it was years before I could tackle anything similar. So I decided,
all right, the only way to get rid of the ghost, as it were, is to go all the
way back to mythic sources and to write from the mist rather than from a
literary influence. So that's what I've been attempting to do.
Although one must not expect another Lord of the Rings. I was just doing my
version of elves, which has always fascinated me as characters. But that's been
a current project and one which I've had a great deal of joy in. sort of
allowing me to stretch unaccustomed muscles. I've been out of the mythic realm
for quite a while, and this was a chance to do it again. I have several that I'm
working on. Well, people might be interested in ones that I definitely know are
forthcoming.
there's one called Merchanter's Luck which should be out this spring which is a
story set in the same area of space as down below station it can be read apart
from it, completely separate from it, but I think that a reader would enjoy it
more if they happened to have read down below station first it involves It's a
very, very simple story. It's very like the story I set out to write and then
discovered that you can't do that kind of story without laying your groundwork,
so I built the universe in which this takes place and then wrote the story
finally after all this time, which is a very simple space adventure story that I
had to build a universe in which it could happen. Then there's another one,
which is quite strange. it's sort of a combination of space technology and
Tenneyson Idylls of the King,
which I suppose has to be seen to be believed, and we're still talking about
what the title of that one is going to be, so I can't give a title except to say
that it will be out this next year. But I'm working on a number of alien contact
things, and I've got a couple of books which are so very strange that I don't
know if I will ever get them finished or not. They're fun to muddle around with.
Okay, David wanted me to ask you this. I guess I would have asked you too. How
can you put out so many books? It's incredible the number of books you've come
out with in the last couple of years. Well, I work at it full time, and I enjoy
doing it. I mean, physically face it, it doesn't take very long to write a book.
Like I said, if you do it all from scratch, you could sit down with a typewriter
and rip one off, and inside a month, maybe two weeks to type a novel if you
really want to kill yourself at the keyboard. The problem is thinking it up. My
tendency to shift radically between types of novels I think has contributed a
great deal to my output. If I wrote, as some writers do, all in the same
universe. I think I would have very great difficulty maintaining the kind of
output that I do. I would get stale. I would get to where I thought I would be
thinking, did I say that in this book or was it the last book?
There's also, well, the shifting of types. And there's the fact that I use a
computer when I write. That helps a great deal. And I write with a word
processor. I have not always, but I've started doing that this year. And before
that, I wrote with a sort of a semi-word processor, which, again, speeded things
up a great deal.
And actually, I believe that the last of my works to be composed on an ordinary
typewriter was The Vated Sun. and if you ask how did I maintain my out put up to
that point the answer is that I darn near killed myself um I literally would
leave the keyboard with my back hurting so badly that that it hurt to straighten
up and my fingers aching where I would soak them in hot water trying to get the
kicks out of them nowadays I find writing a good deal more relaxing, I just have
the computer print out my latest stuff and I lie down on the couch, prop my feet
up and sit there and go over the rough with a pencil and sip coffee with one
hand and make leisurely corrections with the other. So it's a good deal easier.
Okay, and we've been amazed at how many science fiction writers are using word
processors these days. I guess that does save time. Do you have any possible
movie rats coming up or anything that might be made into movies? Yes, I'm not
sure really how much I ought to talk about that particular item because some of
the things are under negotiation.
It might not be thoroughly helpful, but suffice it to say that there has been
some movie interest in some things. And also, games and this
sort of thing, you know. Yeah, okay. That's fine. Okay, that's really all, I
guess. We've taken enough of your time, do we? Thank you.